The goal of this project is to measure the effectiveness of various branch direction prediction (“taken” or “non-taken”) schemes on several traces of conditional branch instructions. Each trace contains a variable number of branch instructions, and for each branch, the program counter (PC, word address is given) and the actual outcome of the branch are recorded in a trace line. Several trace files are provided for evaluating your predictor designs. 
Your goal is to write a program in C or C++ that would use these traces to measure the accuracy of various branch predictors that we studied in class. The branch outcomes from the trace file should be used to train your predictors. Specifically, the following predictors have to be implemented: 
 1)  [5%] Always Taken.  
2)  [5%] Always Non-Taken.  
3)  [20%] Bimodal Predictor with a single bit of history stored in each predictor entry. Determine the prediction accuracy of this predictor for the table size of 16, 32, 128, 256, 512, 1024 and 2048 entries. Present results for all traces separately, and the averages across all traces (details of what exactly needs to be submitted are provided below). Assume that the initial state of all prediction counters is “Taken” (T)  
4) [20%] Bimodal Predictor with 2-bit saturating counters stored in each predictor entry. Repeat the same experiments as in part (3) above. Assume that the initial state of all prediction counters is “Strongly Taken” (TT) 
5) [25%] Gshare predictor, where the PC is XOR-ed with the global history bits to generate the index into the predictor table. Fix the table size at 2048 entries and determine the prediction accuracy as a function of the number of bits in the global history register. Vary the history length from 3 bits to 11 bits in 1-bit increments. Assume that the initial state of all prediction counters is “Strongly Taken” (TT). The global history register should be initialized to contain all zeroes (where 0=NT and 1=T). The global history register should be maintained such that the least significant bit of the register represents the result of the most recent branch, and the most significant bit of the register represents the result of the least recent branch in the history. 
6) [25%] Tournament Predictor. The tournament predictor selects between gshare and bimodal predictor for every branch. Configure gshare with 2048-entry table and 11 bits of global history, and configure bimodal predictor with 2048-entry table. Furthermore, configure the selector table with 2048 entries and use the same index as you use for bimodal predictor to index into the selector table (that is, the PC). For each entry in the selector, the two-bit counter encodes the following states: 00 – prefer Gshare, 01 – weakly prefer Gshare, 10 – weakly prefer Bimodal, 11 – prefer bimodal. If the two predictors provide the same prediction, then the corresponding selector counter remains the same. If one of the predictors is correct and the other one is wrong, then the selector’s counter is decremented or incremented to move towards the predictor that was correct. Initialize all the component predictors to “Strongly Taken” and initialize the selector’s counters to “Prefer Gshare”. 
The output file should have the following format: 
#,@; 
#,@; 
#,@;  #,@; #,@; #,@; #,@; #,@; #,@;  
#,@;  #,@; #,@; #,@; #,@; #,@; #,@;  
#,@;  #,@; #,@; #,@; #,@; #,@; #,@; #,@; #,@; 
#,@;  
Where each # corresponds to the number of correct predictions made by each of the predictors and @ corresponds to the number of branches. First line provides the number of correct predictions for the always taken predictor, second line for always not taken, third line gives the correct predictions for all seven variations of the bimodal predictor with a single bit of history, fourth line repeats the third line for the two bit saturating counter based bimodal predictor, and the fifth line shows the number of correct predictions for the nine variations of Gshare predictor. Finally the last line is for the tournament predictor. The number of correct predictions and branches should be separated by a comma and every configuration of predictor should be separated by a semicolon(;) and a space. 

